Purpose.md, before:

# The Wardley Mapping Foundation's Purpose
The foundation exists to promote, sustain and increase knowledge of the mapping of competitive landscapes for individuals and collectives around the world, for the public benefit.

To achieve this, its focus is to:
1. Create, maintain, share and support open repositories of knowledge that are free to use
2. Encourage and facilitate research to advance public knowledge
3. Facilitate the creation of open training materials and public education programmes
4. Facilitate the hosting of events focused on educating the public and sharing knowledge
5. Encourage and facilitate the creation of open standards and tooling that improve the state of mapping
6. Support the growth of an international community of people and organisations that share our values

# Operating Principles
We use Simon's 40 guides to help us make better decisions.
![40 guides to better decisions](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/ErsAqc4WMAAz5jL?format=jpg&name=large)

# Values
Shalom Schwartz' [Theory of Basic Values](https://doi.org/10.9707/2307-0919.1116), and Oliver Scott Curry's [7 Universal Moral Rules](https://doi.org/10.1086/701478) both suggest that people share a universal set of human values regardless of race, ethniticy, gender, etc.

We subscribe to Curry's premise that **cooperative interactions are non-zero-sum games**.  We believe that by understanding competitive landscapes, individuals & collectives can influence the mode of competition itself.

We are:
1. **Open** - we promote open bodies of knowledge, standards, tools & services that, wherever possible, are free to use.  Years ago, Simon Wardley decided to gift his mapping research to the public, we seek to maintain that tradition.
2. **Inclusive** - we believe that diversity of perspectives & thought builds more resilient ideas & organisations.  As we serve people the world over, it makes sense that anyone is welcome to join, contribute or attend events.

Commit message:

Add 40Guides.jpeg with alt text. (#43)

Purpose.md, after:

# The Wardley Mapping Foundation's Purpose
The foundation exists to promote, sustain and increase knowledge of the mapping of competitive landscapes for individuals and collectives around the world, for the public benefit.

To achieve this, its focus is to:
1. Create, maintain, share and support open repositories of knowledge that are free to use
2. Encourage and facilitate research to advance public knowledge
3. Facilitate the creation of open training materials and public education programmes
4. Facilitate the hosting of events focused on educating the public and sharing knowledge
5. Encourage and facilitate the creation of open standards and tooling that improve the state of mapping
6. Support the growth of an international community of people and organisations that share our values

# Operating Principles
We use Simon's 40 guides to help us make better decisions.
![Table displaying Wardley's Doctrine, universally useful patterns that a user can apply regardless of context. Format is the Steve Purkis variation: rows are phases of adoption, columns are categories of patterns. Description of the patterns by phase and category starts from the bottom left and finishes at the top right, suggestive of order of adoption. Phase 1. Communication: Common language; Challenge assumptions; Understand what is being considered. Development: Know your users; Focus on user needs; Remove bias and duplication; Use appropriate methods. Operation: Know the details; Learning:Bias towards data. Phase 2. Communication: A bias towards open. Development: Focus on the outcome; Think fast, inexpensive, restrained and elegant; Use appropriate tools; Be pragmatic; Use standards. Operation: Manage inertia; Manage failure; Effectiveness over efficiency. Learning: Bias towards action. Leading: Move fast; Strategy is iterative. Structure: Think small teams; Distribute power and decision making; Think aptitude and attitude. Phase 3. Operation: Optimise flow; Do better with less; Set exceptional standards. Learning: Bias towards the new. Leading: Commit to the direction; Be the owner; Inspire others; Embrace uncertainty; Be humble. Structure: Provide purpose, mastery and autonomy; Seek the best. Phase 4. Learning: Listen to your ecosystem. Leading: Exploit the landscape; There is no core. Structure: Design for constant evolution; No single culture.](assets/40Guides.jpeg)

# Values
Shalom Schwartz' [Theory of Basic Values](https://doi.org/10.9707/2307-0919.1116), and Oliver Scott Curry's [7 Universal Moral Rules](https://doi.org/10.1086/701478) both suggest that people share a universal set of human values regardless of race, ethniticy, gender, etc.

We subscribe to Curry's premise that **cooperative interactions are non-zero-sum games**.  We believe that by understanding competitive landscapes, individuals & collectives can influence the mode of competition itself.

We are:
1. **Open** - we promote open bodies of knowledge, standards, tools & services that, wherever possible, are free to use.  Years ago, Simon Wardley decided to gift his mapping research to the public, we seek to maintain that tradition.
2. **Inclusive** - we believe that diversity of perspectives & thought builds more resilient ideas & organisations.  As we serve people the world over, it makes sense that anyone is welcome to join, contribute or attend events.
