manual/PRFAQ-structure.md, before:

# PR/FAQ Structure for reference
A Press Release / Frequently Asked Questions structure based on common practice at Amazon.  Format adapted from Adrian Cockroft's proposal.

See more detail here: https://coda.io/@colin-bryar/working-backwards-how-write-an-amazon-pr-faq

---
## Launch Headline: What is a short, compelling product launch headline?  (one short phrase/sentence)
_Date and place._

Elevator Pitch: What is the elevator pitch or the gist of the idea? (one or two short sentences) 

## Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
### Q: Who is the customer and what insights do we have about them?
Describe a typical customer and what you know about their needs, motivations, desires, and pain points. 

### Q: What is the prevailing problem / opportunity? What data informed this?
Make sure this is customer-focused. Clearly explain the opportunity or the problem that needs to be solved and data points that support this. 

### Q: How would we describe the end-to-end customer experience?

### Q: What is the single most important customer benefit?

### Q: How does your solution address the problem/ opportunity that you described above?

### Q: What would a customer say about this?
This customer testimonial quote can be made up, but, it should be specific, believable, and sound like a human said it. Use the testimonial to reinforce why the customer cares about what you're launching. 

### Q: What alternatives did you consider?
Answer

### Q: What alternatives did you consider?

## Next steps
What teams should we partner with and/or approach to hand off this idea?

Commit message:

Added Cynefin links + Internal faq

manual/PRFAQ-structure.md, after:

# PR/FAQ Structure for reference
A Press Release / Frequently Asked Questions structure based on common "Future Backwards" practices at organisations like Amazon, Cynefin Co, etc.  Format adapted from Adrian Cockroft's proposal.  Adjust as necessary for your context (eg: add / remove questions).

See more detail here:
 - https://coda.io/@colin-bryar/working-backwards-how-write-an-amazon-pr-faq
 - https://cynefin.io/wiki/Future_backwards

---
## Launch Headline: What is a short, compelling product launch headline?  (one short phrase/sentence)
_Date and place._

Elevator Pitch: What is the elevator pitch or the gist of the idea? (one or two short sentences) 

## Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
### Q: Who is the customer and what insights do we have about them?
Describe a typical customer and what you know about their needs, motivations, desires, and pain points. 

### Q: What is the prevailing problem / opportunity? What data informed this?
Make sure this is customer-focused. Clearly explain the opportunity or the problem that needs to be solved and data points that support this. 

### Q: How would we describe the end-to-end customer experience?

### Q: What is the single most important customer benefit?

### Q: How does your solution address the problem/ opportunity that you described above?

### Q: What would a customer say about this?
This customer testimonial quote can be made up, but, it should be specific, believable, and sound like a human said it. Use the testimonial to reinforce why the customer cares about what you're launching. 

### Q: What alternatives did you consider?
Answer

### Q: What alternatives did you consider?

## INTERNAL: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
### Q: What are the next steps?

### Q: What teams should we partner with and/or approach to hand off this idea?
