minutes-of-meetings/2022-04-12-Tue - Minutes.md, before:

# Meeting on 2022-04-13-Tue
## Logistics
Where: Online via [Meetup](https://www.meetup.com/wardley-maps-foundation/events/wrmjssydcgbqb/)
When: 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Central European Summer Time) [View in your timezone](https://everytimezone.com/?t=6254c100,348)
Attending: [Simon](https://twitter.com/swardley), [Steve](https://twitter.com/spurkis), [Adrian](https://twitter.com/adrianco), [Julius](https://twitter.com/juliusgb2k)

Agenda
- Step back & re-org.
- Core team to run the foundation.
- Need a knowledge base - key value offerings & branding.
- A group of diverse people focused on community.

## Follow-ups and direction

- [x] Setup Github account. See https://github.com/Wardley-Mapping-Foundation
- [ ] Create repo with 3 files
	- [ ] 1 readme - states what the repo is for 
	- [ ] 1 file for purpose
	- [ ] 1 file for principles

## Discussions

### Retrospective
- We've explored the purpose of foundation. Now going ahead with setting it up.
- We need to increase the diversity of the group.
- People coming in and people dropping off. We'd like to look at how to sustain commitment.

### Core team to run the foundation
The structure to run the foundation would look like this:
- On demand support from Simon
- Board of trustees who aren't as involved in running the day to day stuff.
- Need some to run the org: COO, Treasurer, Secretariat
- Then those in working groups

### Getting started

Start with GitHub - we create a repository there and that becomes the central place where everything takes place.
- Different groups/phases can have different github repositories, such as working groups, governance, etc.
- Any one can contribute. 
- And there'd be also "committers" who'd be on the steering committee.
- Start with 3 files
	- 1 readme - states what the repo is for 
	- 1 file for purpose
	- 1 file for principles
- As we get the hang of this light-weight process and as some are contributing, then we try out the process with a project - e.g., the book. And ask people who'd like to get involved.
- As for the weekly sessions: Then during the weekly sessions, we can look at the pull requests.
	- They are useful to align everyone at the beginning.
	- As more work gets done on GitHub, the conversations will also take place there - as PRs or discussions on issues.
	- The best part would be when when people start creating their own meetings without Simon.
	- We can look at the pull requests
	- Then the weekly sessions might fade out.
- Let's see if we can grow a community around that.

Commit message:

added actions, more context & clarifications

minutes-of-meetings/2022-04-12-Tue - Minutes.md, after:

# Meeting on 2022-04-13 (Tuesday)
## Logistics
Where: Online via [Meetup](https://www.meetup.com/wardley-maps-foundation/events/wrmjssydcgbqb/)
When: 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Central European Summer Time) [View in your timezone](https://everytimezone.com/?t=6254c100,348)
Attending: [Simon](https://twitter.com/swardley), [Steve](https://twitter.com/spurkis), [Adrian](https://twitter.com/adrianco), [Julius](https://twitter.com/juliusgb2k)

Agenda
- Step back & re-org.
- Core team to run the foundation.
- Need a knowledge base - key value offerings & branding.
- A group of diverse people focused on community.

## Follow-ups and direction

- [x] Setup Github account. See https://github.com/Wardley-Mapping-Foundation
- [x] Create repo with 3 files to get going
	- [x] 1 readme - states what the repo is for 
	- [ ] 1 file for purpose
	- [ ] 1 file for principles
- [ ] Reach out to potential trustees
- [ ] Start moving Operating Model content from Miro
- [ ] Shrink calls of weekly sessions to 30min, and organise another one for others in different timezones to attend

## Discussions

### Retrospective
- We've explored the purpose of foundation. Now going ahead with setting it up.
- We need to increase the diversity of the group.
- People coming in and people dropping off. We'd like to look at how to sustain commitment.

### Core team to run the foundation
(Steve: please note, the following is exploratory, not definitive.  We've talked structure on many different occasions, this needs to be finalised by trustees.  There's more detail on the Miro board, let's start by moving it to this repo)

The structure to run the foundation *might* look like this:
- On demand support from Simon
- Board of trustees who aren't as involved in running the day to day stuff.
- Need some to run the org: CEO, Treasurer, Secretariat
- Then those in working groups

### Getting started

Start with GitHub - we create a repository there and that becomes the central place where everything takes place.
- Different groups/phases can have different github repositories, such as working groups, governance, etc.
- Any one can contribute changes as a "Pull Request".
- A limited group of people can save changes ("committers").  This can be the trustees, we'll grow from there.
- Start with 3 files
	- 1 readme - states what the repo is for 
	- 1 file for purpose
	- 1 file for principles
- As we get the hang of this light-weight process and as some are contributing, then we try out the process with a project - e.g., the book. And ask people who'd like to get involved.
- As for the weekly sessions: Then during the weekly sessions, we can look at the pull requests.
	- They are useful to align everyone at the beginning.
	- As more work gets done on GitHub, the conversations will also take place there - as PRs or discussions on issues.
	- The best part would be when when people start creating their own meetings without Simon.
	- We can look at the pull requests
	- Then the weekly sessions might fade out.
- Let's see if we can grow a community around that.
